Now that you know all about Python,
you know how to set up your environment,
I'm gonna quickly show you
the anatomy of a Python program.
Note that you don't need
to understand everything
that's happening in the program.
So don't worry, don't panic.
You're gonna understand all of the
concepts throughout the course of the day.
But I wanna show you what some typical
Python code might look like and
what it does and
break it down into pieces.
So here I have a Python program for
using the GitHub Search API.
And I'm gonna open this up in my editor so
that I can walk you through it,
and I'm gonna run it and
we'll see some results.
So first line I'm importing requests.
This is a package import in this case
requests is a third party package that
I would need to install in my virtual
environment before running this program,
since it's not included
in Python status library.
Then I'm going ahead and
defining a GITHUB_API_URL.
So, what this piece of
code is going to do is,
it's going to use the public
GitHub search API.
And it's gonna pass an e-query asking for
repositories in particular languages that
have more than a set number of stars.
These are methods and you can tell
because they have the def keyword
in front of them and some code that
is indented to the right of them.
But for the time being,
I'm gonna scroll all the way down.
And this code is only 40 lines.
So once you start getting more familiar
in Python, you'll have no trouble
reading this line by line and
understanding exactly what it does.
But the thing that I'm scrolling
down to is on line 30.
And it says, if __name__ is equal to
__ main in quotes, that's a string.
This is how Python knows whether
the main method is being run.
So when we start a Python
program from the command line,
this is going to be the point of entry.
Here I'm defining a list.
And this is a list of what languages
I would like to query for.
In this case, it's Python,
JavaScript and Ruby.
And then I'm calling
a method that is defined in
this file called repos with most stars.
And I'm passing in the list
of languages as an argument.
Now in VS code,
I can in Mac Command click or
in Windows+ Ctrl, click on to this method.
And it will automatically jump and
bring me straight to it in the code.
This method is defined in line 16.
So first I am creating a query
with that list of languages.
Create query is another method
that I've defined in this file.
Let's jump up to that.
This one takes a list of languages and
a second argument.
Here I'm providing a default value
of 60,000 as the second argument.
So if that second argument is not
provided, it's going to use the default.
Then I'm going to build up my query.
This is something called
an F string in Python or
a string with built in formatting.
And this allows me to provide a variable
inside of curly braces, just like this.
And the representation of that variable
is going to get inserted right
into the string.
So I start building my base query and
then I loop through every language
in the list of languages.
And I append onto my query
a string that looks like this.
So a sample query that might
be generated from this method
looks like this comment right here.
Stars colon greater than 50,
language colon Python space
language colon JavaScript.
This is syntax that the GitHub Search API
expects as part of a query.
And then it returns the built up query.
Now we're back in the repos
with most stars method.
I'm going to build a dictionary that's
defined with these curly braces.
The first entry in this dictionary has
a key of Q and the value of query.
A key of sort, that is going to be
in this case the default value,
which sort by the number of stars.
And then also a key of order, it will
have a value of disc for descending.
I'm going to get a response from the
GitHub API by using this requests library.
The request library provides a .get
method that maps to HTTP GET where I
pass in the URL, and then that dictionary
of parameters that I built online, a team.
And then I'm gonna get
the status code in the response.
So for those of you familiar
with API's it might be 200 for
okay, 404 for not found,
maybe 503 if I wasn't authorized.
It doesn's matter to me.
If I got back a status
code that was not 200,
sorry, I have ligatures turned on,
for myself,
I will turn those off for
all of you at the next break.
Because what this should
actually look like is not equals
without a space in between,
I just have a fancy setup.
So, for that I apologize.
But I'm checking here that if
the status code does not equal 200,
I'm gonna raise a runtime error,
my programs just gonna quit.
I got an error code,
I don't know what it is.
Don't know where to go from here.
Otherwise, I'm going to get
the JSON from the response,
save it in a variable
called response_JSON.
And then I'm gonna return
the items key in that
response JSON back to
the calling main method.
So now I'm here,
I've gotten the results from
the repos with most stars
method right up here.
And I'm gonna loop through every
results in that list of results.
And I'm going to get the language which
I know from reading the GitHub API docs,
that it's gonna be in a JSON format
that's gonna have a language key,
a stargazers count key,
which is the number of people who
have started that repository.
And it's also gonna have
the name of the repository.
Then, for every result in these results,
I'm gonna use one of these f strings,
to print out an arrow.
The name of the repo is a language
repo with these many stars.
So it's pretty short program.
It's only 40 lines of code.
I like to think that
this is pretty readable.
Do you folks think that this is readable?
Yeah.
It's compact and condensed, it's pretty
straightforward, what's happening.
And let's go ahead and run this.
And I'm just gonna do that by
opening up the command palette, and
then selecting run
python file in terminal.
This is something that you might run into,
if you already have a repo open
in your terminal and you select,
run Python file in terminal VS code
is gonna try to paste in the commands
to run the file into your repo, and
then your repo is going to explore.
So if you see something like this,
this is the fully
qualified path to the Python
executable on my system.
And the file that I'm trying
to run if you see that and
like invalid syntax, know that you
just need to exit out of your repo or
open a new terminal here with plus
before you try running that again.
So, let's try that again.
I'm gonna select Python run file and
terminal and now it works successfully.
And this went and
reached out to the GitHub API and
pretty quickly returned this
list of some of the top
Python JavaScript and,
forget the third language.
What was the third one?
Let's see, Ruby.
I guess there are no Ruby
repositories of over 60,000 stars.
The GitHub_Search_API doesn't always
return super accurate values, just an FYI.
It optimizes for returning quickly
versus super accurate results.
So if you run this multiple times,
you might get multiple different results.
But that was,
it was pretty straightforward.
It used a lot of the language features
that we are going to learn today.
And it's a really quick and easy way to
interact with API's, interact with data,
and automate a lot of the tasks that
you might have to do day to day.